---
layout: post
title: Mind Engineering for Professionals|1
categories: career
author : Isuru Nuwanthilaka
---

<div align='justify'>
Demands of professional life are slowly and surely becoming complicated with the modernization of the world. So it is clear that people are getting more and more stressed than ever before. The higher stress levels courses life to slow down and feel unhappy all the time. Therefore the mind engineering is a emerging focus area to rearrange the lives of professionals. This is all for finding happiness in our lives but continuing what we are doing today.
</div>
<p/>
<div align='justify'>
For many professionals specially engineers, researchers etc it is increasingly difficult to cope with the workload without sacrificing their inner happiness. So this mind engineering is to review and rethink about this situation to help broaden the meaning of life.
</div>
<p/>
<div align='justify'>
At some point of the life we start to question about our life. What is a successful human life? How should we evaluate success? What is happiness? Why I am still not happy about the life? list continues. First we need to understand that what we all need in this life is happiness.It is the ultimate goal of the life. To be happy we earn money, make relationships, find new friends, help others, learn new things. Everything is to generate happiness.
</div>
<p/>
<div align='justify'>
What do I want? Happiness and to remain happy no matter what happens.
<div>
<p/>
<div align='justify'>
Therefore we have to understand how we gain happiness.
There are two approaches to increase our happiness index. First of all we need to understand them and find where you belongs to.
<div/>

1. Outside in approach
2. Inside out approach

Outside In Approach
-------------------

<div align='justify'>
80% people in the society belong to this category. They seek happiness to flow from outside into them. In human interactions of the life there are four circles in which they have to play four roles.
<div/>

1. Personal/Individual Level
2. Family Level
3. Professional Level
4. Social Level/ Citizen

<div align='justify'>
So this Outside In persons expects lots of things in Social,Professional,Family levels. They give their controllers of inner happiness to the outside. Therefore there are lots of ups and downs in the happiness index. If you are this kind of person you might want to find right people around you. Find a good partner who loves you, find the right friends,make good relations with everyone in the family, find a good job in you interests etc because these kind of factors changes the happiness of outside in persons as they expect others to make them happy which most of the time not going to happen. Everyone has their own problems to fix. So your five sense faculties must be carefully protected.
<div/>

Inside Out Approach
-------------------

<div align='justify'>
If you are this kind of person you are LUCKY, because you can be happy every second no matter what happens around you. This is the better approach to increase to happiness index of a human life. In the inside-out approach to happiness person generating inner happiness in abundance so that he or she can radiate it outwards to family members,professional peers and fellow citizens. Life improvements works best ‘inside-out’, not ‘outside-in’. The risk of failure is minimum if one follows this approach to achieve a successful life with a high happiness index. Meditation practice is the best techniques to generate and increase the inner happiness at person level and then allow it to overflow to all outer levels.
First we need to find out the who I am. Then we can re-engineer our mind to boost happiness.
This series will focus on Inside-Out approach, we call it Meditation for Professionals.
<div/>

To be continued … Part 2

This artical is inspired by Eng.Kithsiri Samarasinghe.